# RPG: Campaign Notes: The Order Of The Stone

## Overview

Three part Call of Cthulhu campaign set in the 1920s.

A group of misguided archaeologists and their acquaintances bring an
ancient evil from the windswept fields of Ireland to the wooded hills
of Massachusetts, leaving a trail of bloodshed and destruction in
their wake. It is the investigators' duty to prevent these deranged
cultists from releasing the malign being from its age-old prison:
three recently rediscovered stone urns of great antiquity.

## The Factions

There are three key factions at the heart of The Order of the Stone,
and the investigators’ interactions with these groups drive the story
forward.

  * Agran’Talan’Tsoth: a terrible monster from another dimension,
    composed of three individual parts or "essences": Agran, Talan,
    and Tsoth. While each is a distinct entity, the three normally
    coexist in a symbiotic relationship as a single composite life
    form that possesses a ravenous hunger and terrifying alien
    intelligence. Prior to the events of the campaign, it had been
    imprisoned for centuries within three magically warded urns.
  * The Order of the Stone: the descendants of an ancient druidic sect
    originally dedicated to guarding the imprisoned Agran’Talan’Tsoth
    and suppressing outside knowledge of its existence. Currently,
    it’s more of an esoteric society for the bored and wealthy.
  * The Summoners: a newly founded and loosely organized cult working
    to free Agran’Talan’Tsoth from its prison. The cult is centered
    around a wealthy archaeologist from Miskatonic University, Doctor
    Nicolus Sebastian.

## Background

### The Order of the Stone

Thousands of years ago, an ancient druidic sect summoned the foul
being **Agran’Talan’Tsoth** to Earth from another dimension. The
reason the druids called the creature forth has been lost to time, but
they realized their mistake immediately. Though they suffered
terribly, the sect was able to split the monster into its three
constituent essences, then seal each one in a separate, magically
warded stone urn. The vessels were then buried beneath the druids’
ceremonial grounds, with the remaining members of the sect vowing to
protect them for all time. Thus, the group now calling itself the
Order of the Stone was born.

Today, the Order is more of a high-society club than a secret mystical
organization. While its members still dabble in the occult and train
according to the lessons laid down by their ancestors, they
(incorrectly) assumed that the Order’s descriptions of the monster
were no more than fairy stories and that their ancient tradition of
guarding the urns against the curious and the misguided was somewhat
passé—to the point that no one remembered the exact location of the
urns’ hiding place.

A few months ago, that viewpoint changed. Outside the town of
Aughnacregga, Ireland, a young boy playing in a field near his home
stumbled upon a “stone” that had been unearthed by heavy rains. Seeing
the strange carvings on its surface, the boy ran to fetch his father,
who notified the authorities. Soon, an archaeological dig site was
established on the land.

Upon reading newspaper reports about the find, the Order’s members
recognized the symbols described therein as the very same ones that
adorned their sacred scrolls. A horrific realization came upon the
Order: their ancient texts might be genuine, after all! And if so, the
Order must act.

### The Dig

Using a subtle approach, the Order infiltrated the dig and began
orchestrating a series of accidents, hoping to put an end to the
academics’ delving. Suspecting foul play, the lead archaeologist,
**Dr. Francis Irving** , only became more determined to see his
work through and appealed for support from a wealthy and influential
contact—**Dr. Nicolus Sebastian** of Miskatonic University,
Arkham, Massachusetts.

Dr. Sebastian and his team set out on the first available boat from
Boston to Ireland. The timing was fortuitous, as Irving was severely
injured in an alleged car accident shortly before the Miskatonic
University contingent arrived. Taking control of the dig, Sebastian
examined the warding symbols and pictographs on the surface of the
first urn the team had uncovered, the “stone” reported in the
newspapers. What he did not—could not— know was that the sigils had
been corrupted by the loathsome, monstrous essence stored within. The
distorted symbols, when seen in person and studied closely and
assiduously by the unsuspecting archaeologist, burrowed into his mind,
creating a pathway the creature used to influence his behavior.

As he fell under the monster’s sway, Sebastian and his team continued
to excavate, undaunted by the Order’s secretive attempts to prevent
further work at the site. At the end of a short but trying season, the
dig’s undoubted prize was not one but three almost identical ancient
urns, still sealed, and all covered in ancient drawings and symbols
that had never been seen before—officially, at least. Everything
uncovered was boxed up for safe transport and taken by truck to the
docks in Dublin where the steam liner SS Champagne lay berthed. There,
the finds were loaded on board for the long trip back to Boston and,
beyond that, Miskatonic University.

### The Voyage

Once safely away from Ireland, Sebastian was attacked by members of
the Order, who, unknown to the ill-fated academic, had also booked
passage on the SS Champagne. Fortunately, Sebastian survived the
bungled attempt to murder him. Frantic after the attack, Sebastian’s
mind finally succumbed to **Agran** , **Talan** , and
**Tsoth’s** incessant whisperings. Locking himself in his cabin,
he began to write furiously, committing to paper the vile ritual that
poured into his mind from the three-fold monster, aimed at freeing it
from its captivity within the urns.

Once his writings were complete, Sebastian secretly gathered his
**"Summoners"** —his dig team, some passengers, and a few
crewmembers who had expressed an interest in his work. In the
first-class saloon lounge, in the middle of the night under a new
moon, he led them in a ritual that ended with the smashing of the
first urn. Agran, the first of Agran’Talan’Tsoth’s three individual
essences, erupted from within the unlucky dilettante chosen as the
blood sacrifice needed to complete the ritual .

Those of the Summoners not already driven mad by the blasphemous rite
now succumbed to insanity at the monster’s appearance.

The newly liberated Agran promptly went on a rampage, tearing its
victims limb from limb as it released its pent-up anger and
hatred. Although momentarily frozen by the enormity of his actions,
Sebastian quickly came to his senses and got his dig team out of
immediate danger, although their actions only added to the piles of
corpses. The rest of the Summoners who participated in the ritual were
all slain by the monster. (Despite the carnage wrought by Agran’s
release, Sebastian still plans to release Talan and Tsoth (as
described in Chapters 2 and 3), so wholly has he been subjugated by
the creature’s will.)

When the first urn was opened and Agran made whole, the Order, under
the command of **Michelle O’Shannesy** , tried to stop its killing
spree. When they failed, those who remained set up a defensive
position in the third-class dining saloon using ancient magic passed
down in the Scroll of Xivon. One of the spells, the Ward Against
Agran’Talan’Tsoth, was intended to repel the creature; however, the
Order quickly discovered that the runes had no effect on Agran’s
mortal minions, allowing Sebastian and his team to systematically
deface the wards, rendering them useless.

Inside the dining saloon, the Order was overwhelmed by the monster and
its acolytes, and all but one—**Michelle O’Shannesy** —were slain
in the bloodbath that followed. Agran’s hunger was insatiable, and it
attempted to consume its victims’ life energies, a process leaving the
human body little more than a husk . As a result of the Order’s years
of training to keep the monster at bay, Agran found their taste
repulsive and left most of their bodies undrained.

The creature then began to go from deck to deck, hunting the
passengers and crew, aided by its newest acolyte, **Cade
Thompson** . Sebastian and the remaining Summoners wisely holed up
in their suite to wait out Agran’s frenzied feeding. Other survivors
tried to flee the ship via its lifeboats, but the creature tracked
them to the boat deck where it devoured them swiftly. Most were driven
insane at the sight of the monster and the carnage it wrought,
becoming easy prey. Others wept and fell to the deck, praying or
crying out for help. They, too, were quickly consumed. A few tried to
launch the lifeboats, but to no avail, as Agran devoured them.

Over the next couple of days, almost all the passengers and crew were
killed. As the SS Champagne neared the United States’ eastern
seaboard, Sebastian left his stateroom to send a radio message to a
fisherman, **Lucas Barnes** , whose boat he had frequently
chartered for fishing trips in the past. Upon receiving the message,
Barnes headed out to rendezvous with the doomed liner. Thanks to the
fisherman, the Summoners escaped with the remaining two urns and most
of the Order’s information about how to stop the monster. Thankfully,
though, the documents the Summoners stole are not the only copies.

Having safely escaped the SS Champagne, Sebastian and his followers
made their way to Barnes’ home on the outskirts of Greyport, a port
not far from Arkham. There they remain hidden, awaiting the proper
moment to call Agran to them and there join it with the second of the
creature’s essences, Talan.

### Dramatis Personae

  * **Dr. Francis Irving** : lead archeologist on the dig, until
    injured in car accident in Ireland
  * **Dr. Nicolus Sebastian** : wealthy benefactor, from Miskatonic
    University, head of the Summoners
  * **Michelle O’Shannesy** : lead investigator of The Order on the
    ship, leader of The Order
  * **Cade Thompson**  : acolyte of Agran
  * **Lucas Barnes**  : boat pilot who picked up Dr. Sebastian from the SS Champagne

### Spells

  * Summon Agran’Talan’Tsoth
  * Ward Against Agran’Talan’Tsoth, in the Scroll of Xivon
