# RPG: Campaign Notes: The Order Of The Stone

## Overview

Three part Call of Cthulhu campaign set in the 1920s.

A group of misguided archaeologists and their acquaintances bring an ancient evil from the windswept fields of Ireland to the wooded hills of Massachusetts, leaving a trail of bloodshed and destruction in their wake. It is the investigators' duty to prevent these deranged cultists from releasing the malign being from its age-old prison: three recently rediscovered stone urns of great antiquity.

## The Factions

There are three key factions at the heart of The Order of the Stone,
and the investigators’ interactions with these groups drive the story
forward.

  * Agran’Talan’Tsoth: a terrible monster from another dimension,
    composed of three individual parts or "essences": Agran, Talan,
    and Tsoth. While each is a distinct entity, the three normally
    coexist in a symbiotic relationship as a single composite life
    form that possesses a ravenous hunger and terrifying alien
    intelligence. Prior to the events of the campaign, it had been
    imprisoned for centuries within three magically warded urns.
  * The Order of the Stone: the descendants of an ancient druidic sect
    originally dedicated to guarding the imprisoned Agran’Talan’Tsoth
    and suppressing outside knowledge of its existence. Currently,
    it’s more of an esoteric society for the bored and wealthy.
  * The Summoners: a newly founded and loosely organized cult working
    to free Agran’Talan’Tsoth from its prison. The cult is centered
    around a wealthy archaeologist from Miskatonic University, Doctor
    Nicolus Sebastian.

## Background

### The Order of the Stone

Thousands of years ago, an ancient druidic sect summoned the foul
being **//Agran’Talan’Tsoth//** to Earth from another dimension. The
reason the druids called the creature forth has been lost to time, but
they realized their mistake immediately. Though they suffered
terribly, the sect was able to split the monster into its three
constituent essences, then seal each one in a separate, magically
warded stone urn. The vessels were then buried beneath the druids’
ceremonial grounds, with the remaining members of the sect vowing to
protect them for all time. Thus, the group now calling itself the
Order of the Stone was born.

Today, the Order is more of a high-society club than a secret mystical
organization. While its members still dabble in the occult and train
according to the lessons laid down by their ancestors, they
(incorrectly) assumed that the Order’s descriptions of the monster
were no more than fairy stories and that their ancient tradition of
guarding the urns against the curious and the misguided was somewhat
passé—to the point that no one remembered the exact location of the
urns’ hiding place.

A few months ago, that viewpoint changed. Outside the town of
Aughnacregga, Ireland, a young boy playing in a field near his home
stumbled upon a “stone” that had been unearthed by heavy rains. Seeing
the strange carvings on its surface, the boy ran to fetch his father,
who notified the authorities. Soon, an archaeological dig site was
established on the land.

Upon reading newspaper reports about the find, the Order’s members
recognized the symbols described therein as the very same ones that
adorned their sacred scrolls. A horrific realization came upon the
Order: their ancient texts might be genuine, after all! And if so, the
Order must act.

### The Dig

Using a subtle approach, the Order infiltrated the dig and began
orchestrating a series of accidents, hoping to put an end to the
academics’ delving. Suspecting foul play, the lead archaeologist,
**//Dr. Francis Irving//** , only became more determined to see his
work through and appealed for support from a wealthy and influential
contact—**//Dr. Nicolus Sebastian//** of Miskatonic University,
Arkham, Massachusetts.

Dr. Sebastian and his team set out on the first available boat from
Boston to Ireland. The timing was fortuitous, as Irving was severely
injured in an alleged car accident shortly before the Miskatonic
University contingent arrived. Taking control of the dig, Sebastian
examined the warding symbols and pictographs on the surface of the
first urn the team had uncovered, the “stone” reported in the
newspapers. What he did not—could not— know was that the sigils had
been corrupted by the loathsome, monstrous essence stored within. The
distorted symbols, when seen in person and studied closely and
assiduously by the unsuspecting archaeologist, burrowed into his mind,
creating a pathway the creature used to influence his behavior.

As he fell under the monster’s sway, Sebastian and his team continued
to excavate, undaunted by the Order’s secretive attempts to prevent
further work at the site. At the end of a short but trying season, the
dig’s undoubted prize was not one but three almost identical ancient
urns, still sealed, and all covered in ancient drawings and symbols
that had never been seen before—officially, at least. Everything
uncovered was boxed up for safe transport and taken by truck to the
docks in Dublin where the steam liner SS Champagne lay berthed. There,
the finds were loaded on board for the long trip back to Boston and,
beyond that, Miskatonic University.

### The Voyage

Once safely away from Ireland, Sebastian was attacked by members of
the Order, who, unknown to the ill-fated academic, had also booked
passage on the SS Champagne. Fortunately, Sebastian survived the
bungled attempt to murder him. Frantic after the attack, Sebastian’s
mind finally succumbed to **//Agran//** , **//Talan//** , and
//**Tsoth’s**// incessant whisperings. Locking himself in his cabin,
he began to write furiously, committing to paper the vile ritual that
poured into his mind from the three-fold monster, aimed at freeing it
from its captivity within the urns.

Once his writings were complete, Sebastian secretly gathered his
//**"Summoners"**// —his dig team, some passengers, and a few
crewmembers who had expressed an interest in his work. In the
first-class saloon lounge, in the middle of the night under a new
moon, he led them in a ritual that ended with the smashing of the
first urn. Agran, the first of Agran’Talan’Tsoth’s three individual
essences, erupted from within the unlucky dilettante chosen as the
blood sacrifice needed to complete the ritual .

Those of the Summoners not already driven mad by the blasphemous rite
now succumbed to insanity at the monster’s appearance.

The newly liberated Agran promptly went on a rampage, tearing its
victims limb from limb as it released its pent-up anger and
hatred. Although momentarily frozen by the enormity of his actions,
Sebastian quickly came to his senses and got his dig team out of
immediate danger, although their actions only added to the piles of
corpses. The rest of the Summoners who participated in the ritual were
all slain by the monster. (Despite the carnage wrought by Agran’s
release, Sebastian still plans to release Talan and Tsoth (as
described in Chapters 2 and 3), so wholly has he been subjugated by
the creature’s will.)

When the first urn was opened and Agran made whole, the Order, under
the command of //**Michelle O’Shannesy**// , tried to stop its killing
spree. When they failed, those who remained set up a defensive
position in the third-class dining saloon using ancient magic passed
down in the Scroll of Xivon. One of the spells, the Ward Against
Agran’Talan’Tsoth, was intended to repel the creature; however, the
Order quickly discovered that the runes had no effect on Agran’s
mortal minions, allowing Sebastian and his team to systematically
deface the wards, rendering them useless.

Inside the dining saloon, the Order was overwhelmed by the monster and
its acolytes, and all but one—//**Michelle O’Shannesy**// —were slain
in the bloodbath that followed. Agran’s hunger was insatiable, and it
attempted to consume its victims’ life energies, a process leaving the
human body little more than a husk . As a result of the Order’s years
of training to keep the monster at bay, Agran found their taste
repulsive and left most of their bodies undrained.

The creature then began to go from deck to deck, hunting the
passengers and crew, aided by its newest acolyte, //**Cade
Thompson**// . Sebastian and the remaining Summoners wisely holed up
in their suite to wait out Agran’s frenzied feeding. Other survivors
tried to flee the ship via its lifeboats, but the creature tracked
them to the boat deck where it devoured them swiftly. Most were driven
insane at the sight of the monster and the carnage it wrought,
becoming easy prey. Others wept and fell to the deck, praying or
crying out for help. They, too, were quickly consumed. A few tried to
launch the lifeboats, but to no avail, as Agran devoured them.

Over the next couple of days, almost all the passengers and crew were
killed. As the SS Champagne neared the United States’ eastern
seaboard, Sebastian left his stateroom to send a radio message to a
fisherman, //**Lucas Barnes**// , whose boat he had frequently
chartered for fishing trips in the past. Upon receiving the message,
Barnes headed out to rendezvous with the doomed liner. Thanks to the
fisherman, the Summoners escaped with the remaining two urns and most
of the Order’s information about how to stop the monster. Thankfully,
though, the documents the Summoners stole are not the only copies.

Having safely escaped the SS Champagne, Sebastian and his followers
made their way to Barnes’ home on the outskirts of Greyport, a port
not far from Arkham. There they remain hidden, awaiting the proper
moment to call Agran to them and there join it with the second of the
creature’s essences, Talan.

==== Dramatis Personae ====

  * **//Dr. Francis Irving//**  : lead archeologist on the dig, until injured in car accident in Ireland
  * **//Dr. Nicolus Sebastian//**  : wealthy benefactor, from Miskatonic University, head of the Summoners
  * **//Michelle O’Shannesy//**  : lead investigator of The Order on the ship, leader of The Order
  * **//Cade Thompson//**  : acolyte of Agran
  * **//Lucas Barnes//**  : boat pilot who picked up Dr. Sebastian from the SS Champagne
==== Spells ====

  * Summon Agran’Talan’Tsoth
  * Ward Against Agran’Talan’Tsoth, in the Scroll of Xivon

===== Chapter 1: Terror on The SS Champagne =====

Chapter 1 begins with the investigators sent to explore a seemingly abandoned ship, the SS Champagne. Finding nothing on board but chaos and carnage, the investigators must figure out what has happened to the passengers and crew, as well as dealing with the survivors of an unspeakable rite and the hideous monster that is stalking them all. Can the investigators escape the creature? And, if they do, what can they glean from the clues they find while aboard the stricken ship?

==== Clues ====

The following conditions should be met to ensure they have everything they need to succeed in this and subsequent chapters. Thus, the investigators need to find:

  * Dr. Sebastian’s diary (Handout: Terror 1), which contains information not only about the number of urns in existence and the timing of the second ritual, but also about Agran’Talan’Tsoth’s resilience against mundane weapons.
  * The annotated ship’s passenger manifest, which identifies the Summoners and their leader, Dr. Sebastian (Handout: Terror 2).
  * The First Fragment of the Scroll of Xivon (Appendix A, page 137). With this, the investigators should be able to draw a ward to either keep the monster at bay or contain it.
  * Michelle O’Shannesy. Ideally, Michelle should survive her ordeal on the SS Champagne.

==== Handouts ====

  * Map of SS Champagne
  * Dr. Sebastian’s diary (Handout: Terror 1)
  * The annotated ship’s passenger manifest (Handout: Terror 2)

==== Dramatis Personae ====

  * **//Dr. Abram Bethnell//**  , 54, chair of anthropology at Miskatonic University. Bethnell is a specialist in the works of Sir James Frazer and a huge fan of Margaret Murray’s The Witch-Cult in Western Europe. He has worked at Miskatonic University for decades and is well liked by his students and fellow department members. The loss of contact with the SS Champagne, coupled with the accidents at the archaeological dig in Ireland, have convinced Dr. Bethnell that something unusual—and quite obviously dangerous—is going on. He is determined to see the rest of the dig crew safely back in Arkham, unaware that this is an impossibility.
      * Description: a portly white man with receding, unkempt white hair and pince-nez. Usually dressed in a suit, collar, and bow tie. Has a slightly wild look in his eyes.
      * Traits: tends to get carried away in hyperbolic fantasies; under the current circumstances they’re fantasies of catastrophe. Unfortunately, this time, his fears are proven correct.
      * Roleplaying hooks: as someone who studies folklore, mythology, and the occult, Bethnell has no problem working with investigators that are known to dabble in such things. However, he has no inkling of the Mythos’ existence. By their reputation, he knows the investigators are his best hope of finding out what has happened to the SS Champagne, so he does everything he can to enlist their aid
  * **//Thomas Moorehouse//**  , 43, harbormaster of Greyport. Raised among dockworkers, Moorehouse worked his way up to a management position in the Harbormaster’s Office, where he’s been for 20 years. He initially suspected that the SS Champagne’s problems were down to a faulty radio or some other electrical issue, but now he’s not so sure. Moorehouseis certain that once they get on board, they will find everyone huddled below decks waiting for rescue. He couldn’t be more wrong.
  * **//Bernarda “Bernie” Greene//**  , 41, captain of the fishing boat Foggy Sea. Captain Bernie is gruff and quiet, with decades of sea-going experience. Unless the players find some other way to get onto the SS Champagne, she is the trawler captain who ends up taking them to the drifting ship aboard her boat, the FV Foggy Sea—either because Dr. Bethnell hires her to do so, or because Thomas Moorehouse sends the investigators to her. And if she and her crew are going to get dragged into any rescue attempts, Bernie wants to launch and get going before the storm gets any worse, not stand around talking about it!
      * Description: a solidly built Mexican American woman, with skin like leather and short graying hair. She looks like a woman twenty years her elder.
      * Traits: determined and stubborn; doesn’t talk much and prefers to keep to herself. When she does speak, it is often in grunts and growls. Bernie has no problem giving commands to those around her whether she’s in charge of them or not.
      * Roleplaying hooks: Capt. Bernie is motivated mostly by money but has compassion for those on board the SS Champagne. While she would prefer not to risk her own people, she knows deep down that if she were in trouble, she would want other captains to come to her aid. It’s up to the investigators whether to make the trip worth her while financially or to play on her worry for the other ship’s crew and passengers if attempting to convince her to help.
  * **//Michelle O’Shannesy//**  32, Order of the Stone leader. Michelle was born to a wealthy Irish family and joined the Order of the Stone as a teenager when a friend recommended her. The promise of membership in an elite, clandestine group entranced her, and she quickly took to the Order’s secret ways. Over time, like most members, she was lulled into the false sense that most of the Order’s traditions were nothing more than ancient superstitions. Still, she stayed with the society, mostly to stave off boredom. When the urns were discovered, she was as shocked as the rest of the Order, though still not entirely convinced of he danger that might be unleashed. She watched from the sidelines as attempt after attempt to stop the dig failed. Finally, she signed up to lead the crew heading to America on the SS Champagne to prove to herself and her closest friends that there was nothing to worry about and that the Order’s elders were overreacting. In light of recent events Michelle now knows just how right the elders were.
      * Description: a petite white Irish woman, dressed in a hodgepodge of clothes scavenged to replace the ones covered in her friends’ blood. Michelle has a very nervous expression and always seems to be resisting glancing over her shoulder to see what’s behind her. Her bobbed red hair is held back untidily with a scarf.
      * Traits: Michelle is incredibly jumpy and quick to run off to hide if scared. She is clearly terrified of the monster and refuses to talk about it, other than to say it has killed everyone.
      * Roleplaying hooks: Michelle’s goal is to get off the ship alive so she can warn the other members of the Order about what’s coming. She does not reveal her background with the Order, instead insisting that she is a socialite from Dublin. This is true—just not the whole truth. Michelle tells anyone who wants to confront Agran just how insane that idea is and refuses to participate in such foolishness, physically fighting anybody who tries to force her to take part. If caught in a confrontation, she uses the knife she found in one of the kitchens and flees as soon as she can. Once the investigators learn about the ward, Michelle reluctantly backs any plan that involves it, because she knows it should work—as long as no one interferes.

==== Start 3: Old Salts ====

To be read out:

<blockquote>Today started like most other days for you, the crew of the fishing vessel Foggy Sea, a trawler working out of Boston Harbor. You were preparing to go out fishing despite the less-than-ideal weather conditions, when Thomas Moorehouse, the harbormaster, came on board and asked to speak to Captain Bernarda “Bernie” Greene and the rest of the crew.

“I’m sure you’ve noticed that the weather is beginning to turn out there. I know you want to get out and catch your fill before you need to take shelter from the storm, but I’ve come to ask for your help. We’ve had sightings of a ship, the SS Champagne, drifting with no signs of life. If that ship has no crew when that storm hits, she will likely run aground—or worse.”

He stops and scratches several days’ worth of beard growth, a concerned look on his face. With a long sigh, he continues, “There are hundreds of passengers and crew on that ship, and we’ve not had a single response from her on the radio. I need a crew I can trust to go out, lash up to her side, and board her. We need to find out what’s happened, and make sure she's not lost in the rough seas that are coming.

“You and your crew have done solid work for me when I’ve needed you in the past. Can you do the same again? I’ll pay each of you $100 for the day’s work, as I know it’s dangerous.”

</blockquote>

==== Locales ====

=== FV Foggy Sea ===

* Description: N/A
* Connections
  * Shelter Deck (SS Champagne)
* Clues
* Events
* Handouts

=== <a name="shleter_deck">Shelter Deck</a> ===

* Description: N/A
* Connections:
  * Shelter Deck (SS Champagne)
* Clues:
* Events
* Handouts


|  |  |Shelter Deck  | | | |
|Shelter Deck  | |Promenade Deck (above) \\ Upper Deck (below)  | | | |
|Upper Deck  | |Shelter Deck (above) \\ Main Deck (below)  | | | |
|Main Deck  | |Upper Deck (above) \\ Lower Deck (below)  | | | |
|Lower Deck  | |Main Deck (above) \\ Hold (below)  | | | |
|Promenade Deck| |Boat Deck (above) \\ Shelter Deck (below)  | | | |
|Boat Deck  | |Navigation Deck (above) \\ Promenade Deck (below)| | | |
|Navigation Deck| |Boat Deck (below)  | | | |


The promenade deck is the second deck from the top of
  the ship and contains first- and second-class cabins and amenities,
  with a large open deck area in the bow. Spacious promenades run the
  majority of the deck’s length, reserved mostly for first-class
  passengers.
  * Read Aloud: Like the deck below it, blood smears along the walls
    and pools on the floor show that people must have died here, yet
    there are few bodies. Discarded personal effects roll around your
    feet, dropped, presumably, in their owners’ flight from whatever
    killed so many people. Here and there, a mangled corpse lies in a
    tangle of viscera, but human remains are the exception, not the
    rule. Some of the bodies are obviously crew, others clearly
    passengers from all walks of life. None of them seem to have been
    exempt from the butchery and chaos.

{{tag>"Call of Cthulhu" Campaign Notes}}

